feat: add `no-required-prop-with-default` rule (#1943)
vuejs/eslint-plugin-vue: docs/rules/prefer-optional-props-using-with-defaults.md

---
pageClass: rule-details
sidebarDepth: 0
title: vue/prefer-optional-props-using-with-defaults
description: enforce props with default values ​​to be optional
---
# vue/prefer-optional-props-using-with-defaults

> enforce props with default values ​​to be optional

- :exclamation: <badge text="This rule has not been released yet." vertical="middle" type="error"> ***This rule has not been released yet.*** </badge>
- :wrench: The `--fix` option on the [command line](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#fixing-problems) can automatically fix some of the problems reported by this rule.

## :book: Rule Details

> This rule enforce props with default values ​​to be optional.
> Because when a required prop declared with a default value, but it doesn't be passed value when using it, it will be assigned the default value. So a required prop with default value is same as a optional prop.

Reviewer: I rephrased it to make it a little bit clearer:
```suggestion
If a prop is declared with a default value, whether it is required or not, we can always skip it in actual use. In that situation, the default value would be applied.
So, a required prop with a default value is essentially the same as an optional prop.
This rule enforces all props with default values ​​to be optional.
```

Author: edited

<eslint-code-block fix :rules="{'vue/prefer-optional-props-using-with-defaults': ['error']}">

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
  /* ✓ GOOD */
  const props = withDefaults(
    defineProps<{
      name?: string | number
      age?: number
    }>(),
    {
      name: "Foo",
    }
  );

  /* ✗ BAD */
  const props = withDefaults(
    defineProps<{
      name: string | number
      age?: number
    }>(),
    {
      name: "Foo",
    }
  );
</script>
```

</eslint-code-block>

## :wrench: Options

Nothing.

> 

Author: done:)

---
pageClass: rule-details
sidebarDepth: 0

> title: vue/prefer-optional-props-using-with-defaults

Reviewer 2: Maybe better rename the rule to `vue/no-required-prop-with-default`?

Author: thank you! I have improved name to that
